
Name of the Child Pooja Gade:
Dated : 27th September 2019 to 31st January 2023  ( 3 years 4 months) 
Address: Plot No. 273, C-09, Akshata  Co-op Hsg Soc. Ltd. – Charkop Mahada Colony  Kandivali West Mumbai 400 067
Pooja Gade was a court committed child and was referred to SUPPORT for detoxification and Rehabilitation.  When referred to SUPPORT she was 14 year old and was a hard core addict.  She was into addiction of MD. 10 no. Goli, beer, alcohol and Ganja, grease etc.  She had tried her hands on all kinds of substances that were accessible to her.  She was under the guardian ship of her grandmother (mother’s Mother).  After the separation of her parents the biological father took the custody of the child and also transferred the child under the care of his mother.  Pooja began schooling at the village.  But one day  the biological mother  traced the whereabouts of the child and luring her with better life she eloped away from the school without the father’s knowledge.  This was the turning point of young Pooja life. She was away from disciplined family life.  Under the mothers care at Kandivali even though  she went to school but there was no discipline.  She  got into addiction.  Under the influence of the substance, she also got into sexual acts with the boys who were in her contact.  She was also abused by a known person from the area, that was filed in the local police station and she was transferred to Shradha Anand for rehabilitation, from where she ran away and once again got into addiction.  She was then picked up by the police and transferred to SUPPORT, vide CWC order. 
The client underwent detoxification for 21 days and later with different sessions that brought about changes in her for a span of 3 years and 4 months.  She didn’t show any interest in studies and hence she was put on to inhouse tailoring course that was being taught by the staff.  The child learnt some things with interest.  She grew mentally and physically strong but she was being corrected for behavioral issues from time to time.  During this span, her grandmother expired and now the child was left orphaned but the biological father came forward to take up the responsibility of the child.  She was about to be discharged in the month of December 2022 but once again there was a revival of the POCSO case that came up in December 2022. SUPPORT delayed the discharge and helped the child to get through the case successfully by training her and giving her moral support. 
When the POCSO case was closed she was discharged to her biological father and her step mother, who readily accepted her in the family.  The grandmother property documents were also handed over in the presence of the child and was counselled her to develop adjustments in her behavior as per the situations. 
After going home the child realized the importance of education and skill development.  She was struggling to adjust with the step family of her biological father but found herself out of place.  To keep her reinstated it was planned to keep her away from the family for a certain time by engaging her in the full day DHL sponsored HHA course at Saphale center.  She along with her father was taken for orientation to Saphale.  The child was motivated and admitted to the HHA course, as per her educational and understanding capacity. Pooja joined the course and attended the course from home.  She was been motivated by the staff of SUPPORT and is been helped to understand the course curriculum.  
For the past 3 months Pooja is successfully struggling against all odds, travelling in the train and reaching the course on time but at times fails in keeping up to the expectations laid by the father.  In reality Pooja is experiencing a Reverse Cultural Shock. Her feeling of being out of place, feelings of rejection and confusion became more pre-dominant. She began to face intra personal problems of understanding her step siblings and family.   She was counseled over the phone and was motivated by labeling it as a passing phase.   The family was counseled too.  
The over protective behavior and mistrust of the father led to abusive and tensed relationship that urged Pooja to move away from her house.  As the physical abuse was visible she was advised to lodge a police complaint to which she denied. As Pooja found herself insecure even with her extended family and her biological family too was not in the position to understand her, the best possible option was to shelter Pooja at the SUPPORT girl’s center till the completion of her course and help her grow independent.  
Pooja  is been given time to re-work with herself and also to decide how she wants to shape her future, accordingly SUPPORT will help her draft  a  plan to make herself empowered to face the future challenges.  She will be put on to a job placement once she completes her course and if possible to place her in a Group Home of girls where she can be trained with the etiquettes of living a contended life.  
Pooja completed her HHA course, with certification in that course. Pooja didn’t want to go by the plan outlined by SUPPORT as she was most of the time at an institute.  She wanted to go back to her family.  After counselling an Individual Care Plan was outlined in consultation with Pooja.  The caregiver – her father’s brother was identified, who was called and given him her responsibility.  Pooja was placed at her uncles place for further rehabilitation and  from where she was to  complete her On Job training at Saphale Primary Health center.  There she was able to observe and lay her hand in practical that she had learnt in theory.  She found it more interesting as practical work was her interest area.  Presently she is attending interviews for an appropriate opening. 

 

